---
layout: default
title: 
---

    * [ Contact Us ](/cdat/contact-us)

    * [ Documents ](/cdat/docs)

    * [ Support ](/cdat/support)

  * [ CMOR ](/cmor)

  * [ IPCC AR4 Model Data Portal ](/esg_data_portal)

  * [ About Us ](/about)

  * [ Newsletter ](/Newsletter)

[ News ](/news)

     [ ![](media/newsitem_icon.gif) CDAT Newsletter, June 2007  2007-06-26  ](/Newsletter/Vol3/index_d.html)
     [ ![](media/newsitem_icon.gif) CDAT 4.1.2 Released  2006-06-07  ](/cdat_4_1_2)
     [ ![](media/newsitem_icon.gif) CDAT 4.0 Released  2005-11-21  ](/cdat_4_0)
     [ ![](media/newsitem_icon.gif) PCMDI Software Portal Released  2005-09-28  ](/software_portal_release)
     [ ![](media/newsitem_icon.gif) CDAT 4.0 Beta Released  2005-09-28  ](/cdat_4_0_beta)
     [ More news&#8230; ](/news)

#####  Document Actions

  * [ ![Send this page to somebody](media/mail_icon.gif) ](/cdat/tutorials/getting-started/vcs-canvas-annotation/sendto_form)
  * [ ![Print this page](media/print_icon.gif) ](/this.print\(\))

#  VCS Canvas Annotation

[ ![Table of Contents](media/arrow-up) ](/)

[ ![Previous](media/arrow-left) ](/vcs-canvas-page-orientation)

[ ![Next](media/arrow-right) ](/vcs-canvas-geometry)

[ Contents ](/)

[ Previous ](/vcs-canvas-page-orientation)

[ Next ](/vcs-canvas-geometry)

 Goal:  To introduce you to VCS Canvas plot annotation. 

Reselect the "clt" Variable in the "Variable" selection window. This will
reinitialize the "Dimension Manipulation Panel". Select the orange "Plot"
button to display the "clt" data set.

The VCS Canvas has the ability to all users to add or modify critical
commentary on the plot.

![Graphics_1](media/graphics_1)

To annotate plot commentary, depress the "Option" menu to the right of "VCS
Canvas 1". Then move the pointer over the "Annotation&#8230;" menu item and select.

![Graphics_9](media/graphics_9)

The "Annotation" interface window will appear. See figure 14 for display
results.

For the "Annotation Status", select the toggle "off" button, then select the
"Preview" button at the bottom of the page to preview the changes on the VCS
Canvas. This action will remove all text from the plot. See figure 15.  

Select the "Reset to Initial State" button at the bottom of the page, to reset
the Annotation GUI and the plot.  

Edit the Name input text window. Change the text from "clt" to "VCDAT", then
select the "Preview" button to see your change. Notice the text change (i.e.,
"VCDAT") in the upper left corner of the plot. See figure 16.  

Change the "Name" text properties by selecting the "Properties" button
![Graphics_13](media/graphics_13) to the right of the text window. A text
attibutes window will appear. See figure 17. For the "Table" input text
window, use the arrow button to select "std". For the "Orientation" input text
window, use the arrow button to select "7centerup". Notice the plot will
update automatically after each change.  

Select the "Table" button. The "Text Editor" will appear. See figure 18. Find
the "Size" input text window and change the size from 7 to 20. Now find the
"Angle" slider button and move the slider to value -180. In both cases, the
plot will be updated as the values change.  

At this point, you can experiment with other text attribute settings and
annotation settings.  

Before exiting the GUIs, select the "Cancel" button on the text editor GUI and
"Dismiss" on the "Name" attibute GUI. Also select "Cancel" for the Annotation
GUI. Do not save settings.  

![Graphics_10](media/graphics_10)  
Figure 14. Annotation GUI.  

![Graphics_11](media/graphics_11)  
Figure 15. Annotation removed from plot as a result of setting Annotation
Status "off".  

![Graphics_12](media/graphics_12)  
Figure 16. Annotation name change (i.e., to "VCDAT") as a result of editing
the "Name" input text window.  

![Graphics_14](media/graphics_14)  
Figure 17. Annotation "Name" text attributes GUI. Shown as a result of
selecting the "Properties" button.  

![Graphics_15](media/graphics_15)  
Figure 18. The text editor GUI. shown as a result of selecting the "Text" or
"Orientation" button.  

[ ![Table of Contents](media/arrow-up) ](/)

[ ![Previous](media/arrow-left) ](/vcs-canvas-page-orientation)

[ ![Next](media/arrow-right) ](/vcs-canvas-geometry)
